---
title: My Code of Ethics
date: 2022-10-03 8:00:00 +/-1111
author: David Wolfe
categories: [Reflection, Iowa State University]
tags: [reflection,ISU,portfolio] 
---
### My Code of Ethics

```
This paper is the final term paper for CprE 234
```
This class has been an amazing opportunity to combine my passion for cyber security with my curiosity for ethics and morals. Throughout this course I’ve taken many notes regarding different theories, scenarios, and legislation surrounding ethical conduct. These notes have helped me put together what I believe to be a robust code of ethics that I can use as a guide for my future in the cyber security industry and life in general. My personal code of ethics is built around 3 main principles that I’ve put together from a number of different class resources. The first of these principles is that transparency is the best way to build trust. This stems from the difficulty in deciding what information can and can’t be shared, and with whom information is best shared. The second principle in my ethical code is the acceptance that not everyone cares about security. This is a hard thing to hear for many passionate security professionals, however, it’s an important truth in the world. Not everyone cares about security, but everyone should care, and there are plenty of ways to encourage them. Finally, my last and most important principle for this ethical code is that I will never compromise on security. This may sound like a very naive rule to live by going into security, however, after going through this class I feel confident that I can hold this as one of my guiding principles without coming off as inflexible or stubborn.
The first principle that came to my mind when considering my personal ethical code was transparency. I’ve always found it much easier to connect with a person when you can tell they are being genuine and honest with you. If you had asked me to write this assignment before having experienced this class I would have most likely still landed on transparency as an important part of my code, however my implementation of transparency would have been much too one dimensional. I would have said something similar to, “everyone has a right to know everything, especially when it comes to security”. My views on this matter have grown a lot over this last semester and I feel more equipped to say that there are plenty of situations where sharing everything with everyone isn’t the best course of action. Specifically, in lecture 23 and 24 we discussed the intricacies of security breaches and incident response. These slide decks really made me reevaluate how I view transparency and if there was a better way to frame my beliefs so that I can still function as a security professional. The example that sticks with me most from class is the difference in handling between Home Depot and Target’s similar breaches in 2013 and 2014. Home Depot was much more proactive and open in it’s disclosure and was able to offer more personalized help for customers who were effective. This transparency stands in stark contrast to Target’s approach in which they attempted to handle most of the details in privacy between themselves and the banks. This felt much less personal and in turn led to more public outrage over the breach. This is a perfect example of transparency helping a company navigate incident response. However, there are plenty of examples where leaning too much into transparency can cause more damage. 
The other side of this transparency coin is sharing too much too soon. During our lecture on incidence response we discussed a possible situation where sharing unverified information about a potential breach with unnecessary people could lead to serious damage for a company. It’s easy to imagine that in the quest for openness and transparency, a security professional tells colleagues that there has been a breach and what they currently believe has happened. This may be a well intended effort to get people on the same page, however, it’s important to keep in mind that those coworkers will undoubtedly tell other family members and friends. And, it’s very possible that this informal conversation makes it to local news stations which could begin reporting on a possible breach with information that may or may not be factually accurate. Because of this possibility it’s important to make sure that all sensitive or possibly sensitive information is kept on a need to know basis until formal statements are issued by all parties involved. This is a reality that I never would have considered before taking this class. I would have immediately wanted everyone at the company which was breached to be alerted as soon as possible in the interest of transparency. This new appreciation for transparency will be a massive help when it comes to ethical dilemmas relating to giving out information. Whenever I’m faced with a situation having to do with transparency I will be as transparent as I’m allowed to be in order to build the trust I need to succeed in security.

A second pillar I plan on using for my ethical code is, I will do my best to make security accessible to everyone. I know from numerous conversations with friends and family that not everyone cares about security or privacy. This anecdote is supported by material and stories from lecture about proper security measures being ignored due to some ulterior motive at a company. The issue with this is that I believe everyone should have some level of awareness of security when living in the 21st century. Because of this disconnect between security professionals and common technology users, I could see my future self being stuck in an ethical dilemma between doing what I believe is right as a security professional, and what someone who doesn’t care about security thinks. This other person could be a boss, significant other, or family member. In these situations I plan on using some of the different techniques and strategies we learned about in lecture to translate these abstract security concepts into more tangible and relatable topics for everybody involved. Specifically, lecture 25 was one of the most useful lectures of the entire semester to me. This set of slides introduced the idea of story telling and how the human mind has evolved over time to relate more closely with narrative drive stories. The concept of turning security into a story to help bridge the infosec gap in the workplace is something I had never considered before this class, but it makes perfect sense. If I’m able to put together a concrete narrative describing the risks and rewards of pursuing more security in a company I have a much better chance of getting my beliefs acted upon and getting people to care. While storytelling can be an incredibly effective means of communication, it can also be a bit of a slippery slope as well. We discussed in lecture how quickly it can turn from informative story telling to talking down to someone who is perceived as “dumber” than you. To help avoid this worst case scenario I plan on using a combination of the ideas talked about in our reading, “10 Ways To Make People Like You” by Frances Bridges. This assigned reading has great tips for managing interpersonal communication. Frances describes that by consistently giving praise to people you work with, acknowledging your own mistakes, and making other people feel important in the conversation it’s possible to avoid having condescending conversations about these more complex topics.

This principle of making security more accessible will be one of the most important parts of my ethical code going forwards in my professional career. Because this part of my code will be so important I could see it being a major struggling point for me and an area where I will need to practice my soft skills. Coming into this class I had a solid base of technical knowledge. However, like most engineers that go through a standard university program, I was lacking a good understanding of the soft skills needed to thrive in infosec. One of the soft skills I will need to practice is being able to distill necessary details for each security incident or topic. I’ve given plenty of presentations where I include far too much background knowledge and vague details for normal people to follow along. The flip side of this is providing too few supporting details to the point that there’s no context for the topic at hand. It’s this balance that I’ll continuously strive to achieve through practicing casual conversations with my friends and family since, as described in lecture, soft skills are best developed through real world practice.

The final leg for my ethical code to stand on is this: I will never compromise on security. This may sound like a harsh principle to hold going into infosec. However, I believe that it’s a necessity to start with this principle and work out from there in order to conduct yourself in the most ethically sound way possible. It’s important for me to clarify what exactly this principle means as it’s easy to mistakenly think that this means I will never allow anything to happen in a business that isn’t 100% the most secure option. This may have been the stance I would have taken before this class, however, after our lectures and discussions on risk management I understand now that that sort of rigid stance would result in endless hours of work and money for marginally increased security. I’ve now developed a more nuanced understanding of what ‘compromising on security’ really means. When I say never compromise on security I’m talking about never allowing a threat that I’m not comfortable with, get through review. One of the most important topics I learned from our discussions on risk is that risk is constant when running a business. There’s no successful business in the world that operates without risk in some capacity. Because of this I need to be able to describe security differently for each company I work for. To help me do this I plan on using this principle of never compromising on security in conjunction with the threat modeling frameworks discussed in lecture 21 to layout what risks are worth the most consideration in a given situation. This is one area of my ethical code where I will struggle a lot early on in my infosec career due to the large amount of experience needed to properly analyze risk.

To help me develop the skills I need to use threat modeling effectively I found a heatmap approach, like the ones shown in class, to be a quick and effective way of categorizing and sharing what risks are worth mitigating. While an impact vs likelihood heatmap can be easy for managers to read, it can also be misleading. We discussed several ways in which the data shown on a heatmap may lead to more confusion than clarification. One such example of this involved the ambiguity between two threats that fall right next to each other on the graph. How is it possible to tell which one is more important in the long run? Because of this uncertainty I would use a heatmap as a way of narrowing down the threats that need further individual attention. With this shorter list of threats I can create write ups for each individual threat. After this deep dive analysis I would be in a better place to decide what would be acceptable risk and what I would consider being a compromising issue that my ethical code wouldn’t allow me to ignore. This is just one example of how my views on `compromising on security` have shifted after taking this course. With my new appreciation for risk management I’ll be better equipped to handle these blurry dilemmas between what risk needs to be addressed and what can be safely ignored. 

The code of ethics I’ve developed over the course of this class stands on 3 main pillars. These are, be as transparent as allowed in any situation, make security as accessible as possible, and never compromise on security. These principles are easy enough to understand, but putting them into practice will require a large amount of effort and attention to detail early on in my security career. The areas I will struggle the most will be different soft skill areas that require lived experience. Over time in my security career I will continue to practice the skills needed to distil down necessary details for presentations and those needed for translating dense technical details into terms that middle managers will care about and understand.
